Welcome to the Middle Level
Developmental Success Continuum Support
Website, your guide to using this New
Brunswick-developed tool with
confidence and clarity. The continuums
were designed to help middle schools
see where they are, celebrate what's
working, and take purposeful steps
towards practices that meet the needs
of young adolescents. This tool also
supports schools in knowing whether
they are truly demonstrating middle
school practices and in understanding
what those practices look, sound, and
feel like in action. If you teach, lead,
or support in the middle years, you
know this work is shaped by a deep
understanding of students aged 11 to 14.
In grades 6 to 8, learners are finding
their way and shaping their identities,
learning how to stand out while still
fitting in. They have strong opinions
and growing confidence, and they're
learning to critique what they see,
reason with evidence, and communicate
in many ways. Their peers, media and
social media are powerful influences,
and they're balancing a new set
of responsibilities. Some chosen,
others expected. Middle Level
Philosophy is about creating a balanced,
supportive environment that fosters
academic growth, social-emotional
development, and a sense of belonging.
It connects learning to students'
interests, experiences, and the events
shaping their lives. Middle schools are
catalysts for change, shaping the
trajectory of young adolescents for
years to come. When challenged with
complex ideas connected to real world
applications and given the tools to
explore their future selves, they grow
into the people they are meant to
become. The Conditions for Success
Developmental Continuums were created
with 8 early adopter schools and guided
by an advisory team of Principals, Vice
Principals, District Leaders, and
Teachers. They are grounded in the
voices of learners and educators who
know middle school best and informed by
research into what works. The framework
is built around 7 key indicators we
call "The Big 7." Leadership and Teaming,
Access and Equity, Relationships,
Empathy, Identities, High-yield
Instructional Practices, and Meaningful
Learning Experiences. These are the
building blocks of responsive,
inclusive, and empowering middle
schools. The continuums are more than a
checklist. They are a clear visual
roadmap. This tool helps you self-assess,
set priorities, and spark rich
conversations with your team. It aligns
with the Holistic Curriculum Framework
and Tiered Interventions, and supports
students' academic, social-emotional,
and behavioural needs through strong
instruction, curriculum mastery,
professional learning, and
collaborative problem solving. The new
interactive best practices website
brings this assessment tool to life.
Explore it today to see examples from
schools from across the province. The
Middle Level Developmental Success
Continuums really represents our shared
commitment to doing what's best for
young adolescents. Use them with your
team, explore, reflect, and plan
purposeful next steps. Together we can
create the conditions that empower
middle level educators, families,
support staff, and learners to grow,
belong, and achieve.